[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So I thought I was smart.
I made a lot of money.
I'd spent a lot of time giving
myself pats on the back.
I spent a lot of time
with my mates in the pub,
giving each other
a pat on the back.
And I got to this point
where I was 40 years of age.
I was fat, sick,
and nearly dead.
I was 310 pounds, or 141 kilos.
I was taking high doses
of steroids every day,
day and night, for eight years.
I was a cheeseburger
away from a heart attack.
And I said, no more.
Got to do something
about this, Joe.
You're not as smart as
you thought you were.
So I went straight to juicing
and a plant-based diet.
And within basically 10 to
15 days, the fog had lifted.
And I was on the path.
I was on the path to not
being fat, not being sick,
and not being
anywhere near dead.
At my all-time high, I was about
141, 142 kilos, or 310 pounds.
That was the all-time high.
I fluctuate in my weight.
Weight was always
an issue with me.
I used to be called "fat
bum" when I was like 10.
And all my life, it was
something that was very much--
I was conscious of the size
of my thighs, bum, stomach.
And then I got really
fit when I was at school.
I'm going to play
competitive football.
And I rode.
And I was as thin as a rake.
But as soon as I
hit the workforce
and I started having
those beers at lunchtime,
the waist went one way.
And that was out.
So it wasn't so much an
issue in my early 20s.
But once you stop playing
competitive sport,
once you stop the
exercising and keep up
the poor habits
with the diet, it
doesn't take long to blow up.
I think that when you're
fat and grossly overweight,
you actually work
out a few tricks.
You buy clothes that
are a lot bigger.
You don't tuck your shirt in.
You wear lots of
loose-fitting clothes.
So there are all tricks of
the trade that you can do.
And you don't wear light colors.
You wear darker colors
because they're slimming.
So there's a few
things that you learn
to do to try and
mask the obesity.
But look, I think
that for me, it's--
I've had a big change.
There's a big change now.
And also, when
you're overweight--
I'll just back up here.
The big change for me now is
that I used to look at people.
And I used to see fat people.
I don't see fat people anymore.
I just see lots of people
with excess energy on them.
Because at the end of
the day, our bodies
are storage systems of energy.
We take energy in.
We expend energy out.
What I was doing was I was
taking too much energy on board
and not using it.
And so the body just
naturally stores it up.
So I sort of have a very
different view on the world
right now when I see people that
are carrying too much energy.
Yeah.
When I was in my early 30s,
I was focused very much
on career.
I was focused very
much on wealth.
And health was at the
bottom of the list.
And I was super
focused on business.
I'm running around
the world, trying
to build my little empire.
And what actually happened
after that period of time
was that my body gave up.
It gave up to the pressure of
what I was putting it under.
And when I talk about the
pressure I was putting it
under, it was like
lack of sleep,
poor diet, too much alcohol,
smoking, no exercise.
You throw everything in.
I had it all.
And essentially what happened
was is that I ended up
with an autoimmune disease,
a chronic condition
called "urticaria," which is a--
it's like a chronic rash.
It's like hives.
And it was induced by touch.
So any kind of touch, any kind
of pressure on my body, and I
would swell up and look
like the elephant man.
And so when I went to the
doctors to get this looked at,
they gave me some pills.
And all of a sudden, within
four or five hours, everything
was good as gold.
And I thought, here we go.
Great to be alive in this
modern world of medicine,
where they can give you a
pill, and you're healed.
Well, obviously,
I wasn't healed.
All they were
doing was giving me
a high dose of prednisone,
a powerful steroid,
to mask the actual
symptoms of my condition.
So when you're faced
with an illness that--
after three or four weeks, I've
got to keep taking the pills.
After two or three
months, I've got
to keep taking the pills,
pills night and day.
And I've got to have
these pills with me.
I couldn't not have
them by my side
because if I checked
luggage on a flight,
and my luggage got lost, I
couldn't do without my pills.
So I went from someone who
was relatively very healthy
and not having to worry
about anything like this
to having pills night and day.
And that was a huge shock.
So after about a year of
this, I started to focus on,
well, there must be
some other solution.
So I was looking for solutions
in the medical area first.
I went to the best doctors.
I went all around.
And money was no object for
me to find a cure for this.
And after a couple of
years and all sorts
of different
treatments, nothing.
Still taking the same dosage
of prednisone, about 30
milligrams a day, 15 in
the morning, 15 at night.
And I started to--
I'm a very happy guy.
I'm a positive guy.
And for the first time in
my life, I started to--
the outlook looked bleak.
And I won't say I got depressed.
But I felt the early
part of it coming on.
So then I started a switch
to alternative paths.
And I tried everything.
I did witch doctors.
I did mud baths.
I did acupuncture.
I did the lot.
The one thing which I was
really afraid to face up to
was changing what I
put into my mouth.
And it's like at
the end of the day,
this is kind of like your last
area of control in the world.
What you do with this, what you
take, and what you put in here
nobody can control you on.
There's a lot of control
going on in the world,
whether it's your
government, whether it's
your state, whether it's
your career, your parents,
your kids, your loved ones.
But this last
little bastion here
of what you put in your mouth--
that's all yours.
And so I was very--
it was a big issue
to face up to that.
And deep down, I
probably knew that what
I was putting in my mouth had
to have something to do with it.
Because I was a
smart guy, right?
Well, at least I
thought I was smart.
And so that was
the turning point.
Now, there's a difference
between knowing it and doing
it.
So it was about three or
four years in that I knew
I had to do something about it.
But it took me another
five before I actually did.
And that shift, that
procrastination,
that putting it off--
I think that once I hit 40,
I think that was like a--
the quiet chats with myself.
Joe, you got to do
something about this, mate.
You've been putting it off,
putting it off, putting it off.
And I have a saying.
We spend the first 40
years of our life trying
to kill ourselves and the
next 40 trying to stay alive.
And I certainly was the
poster boy for that mantra.
Well, I'm no expert.
I'm just a bloke
who's gone along.
And I was heading
down one path, where I
was fat, sick, and nearly dead.
And then all of a sudden, I
said, wake up yourself, Joe.
But I'm no expert.
But what I have learned is that
70% of all disease in the world
is caused by lifestyle choices.
Now, you can look at
that as quite negative.
I look at that as
quite positive.
I reckon, how exciting is that?
That means that 70%
of all the diseases
we can do something about.
I mean, that's
exciting, isn't it?
No.
I didn't try any.
I think I worked out pretty
quick after two years
that the pills
weren't the answer.
So no, I didn't try any of that.
Lap band, surgery, all the
risk associated with that--
I was desperate.
But I wasn't that desperate.
I still felt I had
a few cards to play.
And like I said, it was
facing up to that one big card
that I might have
to give up pizza.
I might have to give up beer.
I might have to give
up the hamburger.
Shoot me.
So it was that.
It was those comfort foods--
the sugar, the fat, the
salt. You grow up with it.
It's part of who you are.
You associate so
much of happiness
with being at McDonald's and
having that clown run around
while you're eight years of age.
So it's these associations
that we grew up with.
And food is no longer energy.
It's entertainment.
And that's not
good because it's--
I mean, look.
A little bit of entertainment
for food is fine.
But if it's all about
entertainment, that ain't good.
I'm still addicted to
chocolate ice cream.
That doesn't go away.
When you're addicted,
you're addicted.
You're gone.
Now I try to manage
it as best as I can.
My whole message is not
to give up foods entirely.
I come from this
middle-of-the-road point
of view.
I just think rather than
not eat certain foods,
I think you should eat
more of certain foods.
And so my whole message, which I
tell myself every day, is, Joe,
today you've got to eat
more fruits and vegetables.
You've got to eat more
foods that are alive.
You've got to eat more nuts and
beans and legumes and seeds,
all those things that are made
by the sun and by the earth
and by water.
And if you can eat those
things, then eat more of them.
Then that'll allow you
for those special times
to have the chocolate ice cream.
No, no.
One thing I learned driving
across the United States
for 60 days just drinking
juice and talking to people
about what they ate and,
more importantly, what
they didn't eat--
what I learned was that there
is a whole group of people
out there that are addicted
to sugar, fat, and salt.
And they want to do
something about it.
But the big thing was
that they didn't blame
anyone else except themselves.
So there's this enormous
groundswell of people out there
that know that they've got
to do something about it.
And it's just them going from
the knowing to the doing.
There's enough information.
There's enough
stories out there.
There are enough
great movies out there
that have shown people
what they need to do.
It's just a matter
now of doing it.
And I believe that that
comes down to leadership.
I think each and every
person, the people
out there that are
watching this now--
you start eating
more plant food.
That people next door-- they'll
follow and so on and so on.
And that's how we make a change.
It's just about
individuals going out there
and blazing the trail.
So I was motivated to--
I guess the way I look at
it was is that I turned
my back on mother nature.
And I wanted to
conduct an experiment
where I was the lab rat.
What would happen if I ran
towards her full steam?
Would she open her
arms and embrace me?
And would I be healed?
And that was kind
of my experiment.
So let's full bull.
Let's go hard hitter.
And so it was like, OK,
what am I going to do?
Well, I'm on high
dose of steroids.
I'm on medication night and day.
I am 100 pounds, or 45,
50 kilos, overweight.
I'm a cheeseburger away
from a heart attack.
And I'm only 40 years of age.
And I remember when I was a kid
hearing about my mates' dads
having a heart attack.
And they were in their 40s.
And I thought, gee, that's old.
But here was I, all of
a sudden hitting 40.
And I was like, I'm
part of that group.
So I said to myself, all
right, what if I just
embrace plant food only
until I'm off my medication?
I had no idea how long it
was going to take, no idea.
Could be a year.
Could be two years.
Could be longer.
But I made the commitment
that I'm going to do it.
And to supercharge my
start and my beginning,
I said, what would happen
if I only juiced it?
And the reason I
did the juicing part
was because that's
how I was able to get
much more of the superfood
or the micronutrients
or the phytochemicals
in a concentrated way
into my system.
So I went out, and I did
two months, 60 days, nothing
but juice.
Then it took me
another three months
of only eating plant food.
I had one break.
Christmas day I had
a prawn, or a shrimp
as they call it over here.
But apart from that, that's
what I did-- five months
total of plant food.
And I took my steroid
dosage down to zero.
That was three and
a half years ago.
And I haven't had a pill since.
Over the period
of the 60 days, I
lost close to 80 pounds,
or 35 to 40 kilos.
And then the period afterwards,
I continued to lose the weight.
But see, losing weight--
I don't like these
words of losing weight.
I like the idea of getting
rid of excess energy.
And the excess energy
is in the fat for mine.
Now, I know there's
energy in the muscle.
But I like to think
about it as reducing
the amount of fat
I had in my body
and increasing the muscle tone.
And I've still got
a long way to go.
I mean, I'm not perfect.
I'm still on this journey of
trying to get to that level
where I can sit
back and be happy.
But I know that the day I
sit back and say that, I'll
probably go have a pizza.
So we don't want that
to happen, do we?
But the idea of quickly
losing the weight--
I kind of think that it
was more about my body
trying to get into
balance and to be healthy.
And if you put plant
food only into your body,
you'll know pretty quickly
whether you're overweight.
Because lots of
people who do this--
they don't lose any weight
because they didn't need to
in the first place.
But if you're actually carrying
too much energy and you've got
too much excess fat on
you or excess muscle--
and some people do--
then the body will quickly and
simply adjust and balance up.
The hardest part of what--
I call it a "reboot."
I call what I did was--
just like with computers,
you need to sometimes hit
the Control-Alt-Delete.
Well, I needed to
do that with myself.
So I call it that I
needed to reboot my life.
I needed to reboot
the whole system
and take everything
that I was putting
into this amazingly designed--
I mean, we're all incredibly
unique in our own way.
And what I was putting into
the system was basically crap.
The average American
and Australian--
60% of what they eat
is processed food,
30% animal product, 5% whole
grains and white potatoes,
and just 5% fruits
and vegetables.
And I reckon I wasn't
even doing that.
So what do you expect?
I have a saying.
You're going to eat food made
by people in white coats.
You're going to end up
seeing people in white coats.
And it was just
pretty obvious for me
that that's where I had to go.
So the motivation was all about
getting off the medication.
It was about getting
off the pills.
So you have these
highs and lows.
And then you start
to look at it.
You start getting
a little nervous.
And you start to think, gee,
this is going to be tough.
And then when you start,
there's a lot of emotion
when I started off.
And I didn't know
what I was doing.
Making a film?
I had no idea what I was doing.
So it was a bit of distraction.
But about two or three days
in, I was doing it real tough.
I felt like someone had come
along, ripped open my guts,
split open my stomach, and
put rocks and dirt and then
all sorts of crap in me
and zipped me back up.
I was feeling crook
as and lonely,
couldn't sleep, wanted
to sleep, didn't know
whether I was Arthur or Martha.
And it took about two
or three days for me
to get through those
dark, dark times.
And then after about
day four, day five,
the fog started to lift.
And I wasn't hungry anymore.
I truly wasn't hungry.
Now, I had cravings.
And I couldn't watch TV
because of all the commercials
about advertising all the food.
And it's funny.
They all come on in the
evening, the food ads.
So I couldn't do that.
But I was never hungry.
For the whole two months,
never, ever hungry
after about three or four days.
And then I didn't really have
any emotional setbacks other
than it just was a bit boring.
Just drinking juice for
60 days is boring as.
But if you're making a movie and
you're traveling across America
and you're talking to all these
wonderful people over here,
it makes it interesting.
Well, I don't take
the pills anymore.
And that's a miracle,
as far as I'm concerned.
So not having to take pills--
knowing that every time you
put those pills into the body
that you're exposing
yourself to a whole wrath
of other diseases.
So it's hard to--
how you feel is, I guess,
a hard thing to qualify.
I feel younger.
I feel more alive.
I certainly feel healthier.
I feel more alert.
I'm definitely sleeping better.
Everything works better.
It's nice to be able
to go into stores
and buy clothes that you
can tuck your shirt in.
It's nice to be able to actually
not have to go to specialty
stores to buy your jeans.
So there's lots of benefits.
There's lots of benefits.
And I guess that I feel 10
years younger, maybe 20.
I think your attitude
to life has a lot
to do with your health as well.
And unfortunately, most people--
and when I say "most,"
that's over 50% of people--
get out of that morning shower,
have a look at themselves
in the mirror when
they're alone,
and they're not happy
with what they see.
They're just not happy.
And they start out their day by
berating themselves and telling
them they're a loser
and that they're no good
and they've got to lift their
game and all these things.
Now, if you had someone who
is with you 24/7 that was just
whispering that in
your ear all the time,
I don't know about you, but
they wouldn't last five minutes
with me.
Yet we allow ourselves
to do it to ourself.
But we do it to ourselves.
So I really think
that part of what
I went through with
my reboot and what
I've found with the
thousands of people
that have followed me and done
this is that their optimism--
the way they look at themselves
after they've achieved this
is they get out of that
shower in the morning.
And OK, they're not going to
look like Brad Pitt or Angelina
Jolie.
But you know what?
They look at themselves.
They give themselves a wink.
And they say, you're a
winner because you've
at least achieved something.
You've gone and you've eaten
only fruits and vegetables
or drank them for a
set period of time.
And you achieved a goal.
And there's something
to be said for that.
There's something
for setting a goal,
achieving it, looking
better, losing a few pounds,
sleeping well, thinking clearer.
I mean, what's not
to love about that?
[MUSIC PLAYING]